## February 8th Blogpost


This week’s readings focused on power and data and how they relate to one another. The *Data Feminism* chapters especially interested me, as they discussed hidden oppression and how oppression seeps into datasets, databases, and algorithms as well as the data science industry. I had mentioned Safiya Noble’s work *Algorithms of Oppression* in class and how it related to these readings. With that book in mind and my own experiences, I was reminded again how blind we can be to problems we never face. These chapters highlighted the importance of having people with a variety of experience in the “drawing room.”


The book also mentioned binaries and how they restrict gender identities—since not even being acknowledged is harmful but more than that, not having data collected about people if they do not fit into a category is especially harmful. That connects to Mimi Onouha’s exhibit  “The Library of Missing Datasets” and the point it makes about data that should exist but doesn’t both reflects and strengthens oppression and existing power hierarchies. Interestingly, “Film Dialogue from 2000 screenplays, Broken Down by Gender and Age” also ties into the ideas of binaries in data sets. However, this analysis of 2000 screenplays is meant to showcase sexism in Hollywood. We brought up in class that perhaps not mentioning anything outside the gender binary in this data analysis is representative of a lack of representation for those who do not fall into that binary. However, nothing in the article mentions anything about that, so I think *Data Feminism*’s critique of binaries in data still stands true.